Hey there welcome back as always this is cure or make or your daughter coach.
And today we're starting the SSA as part of the EPL.
This is the real deal.
Over the course of the next few tutorials there will be lots of errors and corrupt data which will be
tripping us up just like in real life.
But don't be worried.
I will still be holding your hand all the way and show you how to deal with all the issues.
It's a homework at the end of the section that you should be worried about.
So follow along carefully and take notes and you'll be prepared for the challenge.
All right so we're going to start off with by opening our daughter's science folder and going to our
project.
We will take them.
Not the original data will take to prepare Dora.
We will copy it and we will place it in the uploaded data in its own folder which will create for today
.
So 15 August 05 OK.
Now we will place it in here.
All right so now we want to upload this file.
We need Sosias and therefore relaunching Microsoft Visual Studio.
Now create a new project and select Integration Services project give your project a name going to call
it ITIL error handling Phase 2 click OK.
Your project has been created.
You can get rid of this window up here now.
Drag a data flow task into your workspace before we open it up.
We want to give it a name so as usual follow the convention.
Start of the date and then give it the name.
OK so now let's open the data flow and inside the data flow we want to create a flat file source and
and all the DBI destination.
Let's connect the two.
So same thing as we're used to from the previous sections of the course.
Now we want to set up our floodwall source open up the flat file source create a new file flat file
connection connection manager and here we will want to find our files so I've already got this folder
open.
Just make sure you are looking for all the files you files a file open it up right away.
Copy the name of the file put it into the connection manager name and let's pretend that we forgot to
do the rest on this page and just continued forward so let's just go to the column section and let's
see what we will find here.
If we scroll over to the right everything looks ok so far until something starts happening.
The rows are starting to get skewed.
For instance the credit card number here is is in the correct place but the credit card number in the
first row in the SEC in the third row there are not in the correct place and it's the same for these
rows and then this row is even further and then in this row in the fifth row it's even further.
So as you can see the rows are being skewed quite a lot and the data is has turned into a mess.
So what happened here.
Well the reason is that we forgot to specify a TX qualifier so if we go back here you'll see that we
didn't specify a text qualifier so I'll just put in the text qualifier now and if we go to columns you
will see that everything is much better.
Everything is nicely structured so let's investigate that for a second.
This will help us understand what the text qualifier does to start off with.
Let's quickly go to the comments section over here the feedback and look at the feedback in the first
five rows so the first three rows are empty.
And then we've got feedback in the fourth and fifth rows.
Here you can see that there is a comma and then if we expand this you'll see that there is a comma here
and there is another comma here so there's a couple of commas in the fifth row.
So now let's go back and get rid of the text qualifier and see what happens.
So when we go to the columns and we find our feedback I'll just make this smaller for now
so you can see here is that this feedback in the fourth row.
It got split.
So now that you can see the quotation marks there.
Been there part of your daughter now.
And the comma between these two parts of the phrase has disappeared.
Well what happened is because we have unchecked text qualifiers so we have not specified the text qualifier
.
SOSIAS no longer recognizes the quotation marks as something that encapsulates text or a string.
Right now what is it.
Recognizing this element of data is as two separate cells separated by a comma.
One cell starts for quotation mark which is part of the data than has three words.
Then there is a comma which means that's and you call them and then there's five more words.
Exclamation mark quotation marks.
So before the quotation marks would encapsulate dadda and segregated from the rest of the world and
say whatever is between these quotation marks cannot be a tech cannot be a delimiter.
It cannot tell Sosias that there is and you call them.
It is within those quotation marks and therefore it segregated Microsoft Visual Studio should not recognize
it as a text delimiter.
Same thing happened here but here every time there was a comma society thought it was a new column and
so therefore the this text.
This part of the text shifts the rest of the columns a bit to the right and here same thing so everything
on this in this role will be shifted by four columns to the right are actually by three columns to the
right and that's what's happening here.
That is why the text qualifier is so important.
It allows you to segregate any column delimiters from the rest of the world and allows you to basically
use them in your daughter.
So let's go ahead and get rid of these problems by returning the text qualifier which is our quotation
marks.
So now if you look at columns you will see that everything is fine and even when we get to the feedback
everything is great and the commas.
There are no quotation marks anymore because they're not recognized by Sosias as text qualifiers and
also the commas are within your text so everything looks great until we get to the end where where is
this column which is completely by itself.
So if we scroll down now you will see that further in this column there is a value.
So one row still got skewed this one over here.
Row 96.
And also if we scroll back up a bit you will see that there is an empty space here and this row here
got skewed to the left row 81 so we will talk about what happened here in the next tutorial.